if you look at the graduation rates if
you look at the college or mittens rates
for West Philadelphia High School
they're abysmal I created after school
program that I believed in the potential
of the students I needed to do something
that was sustainable that would allow
adults and students interact around real
problems and its produce real work
everything we did to make the hybrid car
we actually made it and it's surprising
when a kid could do that and he sees
that he's part of it he actually feels
like hey I could really do this I
started it because I wanted to be
involved in like and new technologies of
the future the reason I joined was I was
having some problems in everyday school
life and one of the teachers took the
interest in me they said you're a smart
kid I think you should like be a part of
this bring miss are in and this XPrize
expanding the team what it's allowed us
to do is create these other compartments
so if you're really interested in PR and
don't really want to turn wrenches now
we have a place for you to start to
explore your interests and passions and
how that relates back to this bigger
project
as an English teacher I am definitely
giving them the skills that they need to
succeed because project-based learning
it focuses on the individual strengths
and they're given many different outlets
to shine what the evx team does for
students is it's an outlet for us to
really learn and participate in
real-world things and you know build
cars that have real production potential
and at the same time challenge ourselves
to whatever we want to do
I'm good with fixing problems coming up
with ideas I think about a lot of stuff
that nobody think about when I'm at home
I'm always doing research so when I come
in here I just put on my ideas the fact
that we've built really cool cars that
are nationally and internationally
competitive is amazing but I think
what's really amazing is that we're
educating students in ways that are
successful when most of the public
education system is failing I've
actually had a student go to Toyota and
the people there at Toyota said they
were amazed at the knowledge that this
kid had right out of high school and he
was actually helping some of the master
techs over there find problems with
these cars if you look at the graduation
rates if you look at the College of
mittens rates for West Philadelphia High
School they were abysmal the graduation
rates are around 50% College admittance
rates are about 30% the kids that go
through this program 80 to 90 percent of
them will go on to some post-secondary
education
here Thursday Saturday something new one
day I wish I could be here Sunday Monday